LinkedLists
If you are creating a music player app, what data structure should you use to store the music?
The most recommended is a linkedlist.
How is it possible that you can navigate back and forth pages in a web browser?
It is because navigation is implemented using linkedlists.
In some applications that allows you to undo actions you've taken, what data structure makes this possible?
Linkedlists.
If you want to implement the stack and queue data structures, how do you go about it?
Linkedlists.
What is a linkedlist and why is it suitable for these scenarios?
A linkedlist is a data structrure existing as nodes.
So when a linkedlist is talked about, imagine nodes.
What is a node?
A node is a point in a diagram at which lines intersect or branch.
Nodes are best visualized by a diagram.
When you're struggling to conceptualize a node, just draw a diagram.
Now, if you're asked to implement a linkedlist, you can be simplify the task as being asked to implement nodes.
But you should understand that this simplification is in conflict with another data structure called a tree data structure.
A tree also exists as nodes. You can as well conceptualize nodes when conceptualizing a tree data structure.
How can you differentiate a tree from a linkedlist?
Both consists of nodes, in both, nodes are connected to each other. But in a tree, some nodes branch of to give birth to standalone nodesthat will be connected to eachother but not to the siblings of their parent node.
All these are best captured using a diagram.
Now that we know what a linkedlist is, do linkedlists exists in different categories of there is only one type of linkedlist?
Well, linkedlists exists in various categories. But there are three common among us. 
The first is a singly linkedlist.
A singly linkedlist is a linkedlist implemented such that the nodes only connects in one direction (forward or backward). This is also best visualize using a diagram.
The second is a doubly linkedlist.
A doubly linkedlist is a linkedlist implemented such that the nodes connects  in two directions (forward and backward). This is best visualized using a diagram.
The third is a circular linkedlist.
A circular linkedlist is a linkedlist such that the last node in the list connects back to the first node in the list. This is best visualized using a diagram.
While you can easily google for codes implementing a linkedlist, it's still good to understand how to implement one. You would learn one or two new things about the computer in the process.
So next, we will look at how to implement a singly linkedlist in python.


